{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue233;\red0\green0\blue0;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;\csgray\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c93333;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}
{\list\listtemplateid5\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid401\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid5}
{\list\listtemplateid6\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid501\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid6}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}{\listoverride\listid5\listoverridecount0\ls5}{\listoverride\listid6\listoverridecount0\ls6}}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1) SELECT sql, statement FROM Udacious WHERE queryId = 35;\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf2 Reference\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 For reference, here's a list of all the tables in the zoo database:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 animals\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 This table lists individual animals in the zoo. Each animal has only one row. There may be multiple animals with the same name, or even multiple animals with the same name and species.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
name \'97 the animal's name (example: 'George') \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
species \'97 the animal's species (example: 'gorilla') \
\ls1\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
birthdate \'97 the animal's date of birth (example: '1998-05-18') \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 diet\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 This table matches up species with the foods they eat. Every species in the zoo eats at least one sort of food, and many eat more than one. If a species eats more than one food, there will be more than one row for that species.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
species \'97 the name of a species (example: 'hyena') \
\ls2\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
food \'97 the name of a food that species eats (example: 'meat') \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 taxonomy\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 This table gives the (partial) biological taxonomic names for each species in the zoo. It can be used to find which species are more closely related to each other evolutionarily.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls3\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
name \'97 the common name of the species (e.g. 'jackal') \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
species \'97 the taxonomic species name (e.g. 'aureus') \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
genus \'97 the taxonomic genus name (e.g. 'Canis') \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
family \'97 the taxonomic family name (e.g. 'Canidae') \
\ls3\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
t_order \'97 the taxonomic order name (e.g. 'Carnivora') \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 If you've never heard of this classification, don't worry about it; the details won't be necessary for this course. But if you're curious, Wikipedia articles {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_classification"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Taxonomy}} and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biological_classification"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Biological classification}} may help. \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 ordernames\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 This table gives the common names for each of the taxonomic orders in the 
\b taxonomy
\b0  table.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls4\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
t_order \'97 the taxonomic order name (e.g. 'Cetacea') \
\ls4\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
name \'97 the common name (e.g. 'whales and dolphins') \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 The SQL for it\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 And here are the SQL commands that were used to create those tables. We won't cover the 
\b create table
\b0  command until lesson 4, but it may be interesting to look at:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 create table animals (  \
       name text,\
       species text,\
       birthdate date);\
\
create table diet (\
       species text,\
       food text);  \
\
create table taxonomy (\
       name text,\
       species text,\
       genus text,\
       family text,\
       t_order text); \
\
create table ordernames (\
       t_order text,\
       name text);\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\i \cf2 Remember: In SQL, we always put string and date values inside single quotes.
\i0 \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa321\partightenfactor0

\b\fs48 \cf2 Quiz: Count All the Species\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\i\fs24 \cf2 Note: for correct answer, order of columns in your query table should be species, number
\i0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Select clauses\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 These are all the select clauses we've seen in the lesson so far.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 where\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 The 
\b where
\b0  clause expresses 
\i restrictions
\i0  \'97 filtering a table for rows that follow a particular rule. 
\b where
\b0  supports equalities, inequalities, and boolean operators (among other things):\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls5\ilvl0
\b \cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
where species = 'gorilla'
\b0  \'97 return only rows that have 'gorilla' as the value of the species column. \
\ls5\ilvl0
\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
where name >= 'George'
\b0  \'97 return only rows where the name column is alphabetically after 'George'. \
\ls5\ilvl0
\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
where species != 'gorilla' and name != 'George'
\b0  \'97 return only rows where species isn't 'gorilla' and name isn't 'George'. \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 limit / offset\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 The 
\b limit
\b0  clause sets a limit on how many rows to return in the result table. The optional 
\b offset
\b0  clause says how far to skip ahead into the results. So 
\b limit 10 offset 100
\b0  will return 10 results starting with the 101st.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 order by\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 The 
\b order by
\b0  clause tells the database how to sort the results \'97 usually according to one or more columns. So 
\b order by species, name
\b0  says to sort results first by the species column, then by name within each species. Ordering happens before limit/offset, so you can use them together to extract pages of alphabetized results. (Think of the pages of a dictionary.) The optional 
\b desc
\b0  modifier tells the database to order results in descending order \'97 for instance from large numbers to small ones, or from Z to A.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 group by\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 The 
\b group by
\b0  clause is only used with aggregations, such as 
\b max
\b0  or 
\b sum
\b0 . Without a 
\b group by
\b0  clause, a select statement with an aggregation will aggregate over the whole selected table(s), returning only one row. With a 
\b group by
\b0  clause, it will return one row for each distinct value of the column or expression in the 
\b group by
\b0  clause.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl440\sa298\partightenfactor0

\b\fs36 \cf2 Table used in this quiz\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa280\partightenfactor0

\b\fs28 \cf2 animals\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0

\b0\fs24 \cf2 This table lists individual animals in the zoo. Each animal has only one row. There may be multiple animals with the same name, or even multiple animals with the same name and species.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\ls6\ilvl0\cf2 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
name \'97 the animal's name (example: 'George') \
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
species \'97 the animal's species (example: 'gorilla') \
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
birthdate \'97 the animal's date of birth (example: '1998-05-18') \
\ls6\ilvl0\kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 {\listtext	\'95	}\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf2 THAT IS CORRECT!!\
Here's your first HIDDEN PHRASE.\
HIDDEN PHRASE 2 of 3: \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b \cf2 Table Name:
\b0  Udacious \

\b Columns:
\b0  problemSet INTEGER, node INTEGER, queryId INTEGER, title TEXT, sql TEXT, statement TEXT"\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
U \
D\
A\
C\
I\
O\
U\
S\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 WOW! You made it...Congratulations on all of you hard work.\
HIDDEN MESSAGE #3 = Awesome.db\
Head to the Gift page and plug in your hidden messages!\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf4 sql statement Thanks for Learning SQL :) Stay Curious!\
\
\
sql statement SELECT Composer, Name FROM Track WHERE Composer = 'Jimi Hendrix';\
\
sql statement SELECT Artist.Name as Artist, COUNT(Genre.Name) as count FROM Genre JOIN Track ON Genre.GenreId = Track.GenreId JOIN Album ON Track.AlbumId = Album.AlbumId JOIN Artist ON Album.ArtistId = Artist.ArtistId WHERE Genre.Name = 'Rock' GROUP BY Artist ORDER BY count DESC LIMIT 10;\
\
sql statement CREATE TABLE [InvoiceLine] ( [InvoiceLineId] INTEGER PRIMARY KEY, [InvoiceId] INTEGER, [TrackId] INTEGER, [UnitPrice] REAL, [Quantity] INTEGER, FOREIGN KEY ([InvoiceId]) REFERENCES [Invoice] ([InvoiceId]) FOREIGN KEY ([TrackId]) REFERENCES [Track] ([TrackId]) ); \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \outl0\strokewidth0 \
\
}